# Milestone 2 Reflection

At the end of our work for milestone 2 our dashboard has a number of different features implemented. Our interactive elements currently draw from our dataset to generate widgets which the user can adjust to filter which wines from our dataset are shown on our charts. These include a dropdown to select countries, a slider to adjust the price range, a slider to adjust the Wine Enthusiast Review score, and a slider to adjust the year range. Our charts are immediately updated upon. Our charts that update with the selection of different data include a map showing which country each of the different wines was produced in, a chart which shows the average scores of the top 15 best rated varieties in your specified range, a chart which shows the average price of the top 15 best rated varieties, and a scatterplot which charts review score vs price of all of the different wines. Currently all of these charts are directly affected by the sliders/dropdowns with the only unimplemented interaction being the country dropdown not affecting the map.

In terms of features that still need to be implemented, we would like to have an interactive scrollable list of all of the different wines be returned to the user. We would like to implement a “variety” dropdown to select different types of wine and potentially a search bar as well. The ability to click on a wine in the scatterplot or this dropdown menu to see more information about it, including the written reviews of each wine in our dataset, is something we would like to have implemented. Adding some form of interactivity to adjust which charts are shown would also be an interesting thing to implement. The option to select between different currency rates for the prices could also provide for way to improve our interactivity/usability since prices are currently only displayed in USD.

One issue we ran into with our dataset was one of scale. Our original dataset had over 130,000 different entries which was a volume large enough to cause significant slowdown in plots made with altair. Our solution to this issue was to thin our dataset significantly and sample only 10,000 examples 

Currently our dashboard provides a layout/interface that it very intuitive. Changing/selecting things in the widgets reflects on all of the different charts on the dashboard. Ways to improve it include better fitting so that there is less empty whitespace in our layout and to make it more visually appealing (i.e. better fonts, colour, etc.)
